Feat/auth (#98)
trompamusic/ce-api: docs/authentication.md

# Authenticating with the CE-API  
  
All read operations in the Contributor Environment API are publicly accessible. However, in order to create, update, or delete nodes, the request **MUST BE** authenticated with a JWT token.

## Request a JWT token

> The Contributor Environment API has an endpoint to create a JWT token. This endpoint **MUST ONLY** be used in a secured environment since it uses a private API key which shouldn't be visible to users. Best practice for web applications is to request the JWT token in a backend environment and to only use the JWT token in the frontend.

Reviewer: Many demos are currently using netlify for hosting js-only applications. This means that I'm not sure if they'll have control over a backend that lets them do this action without exposing the api key. Any suggestions on how they could do this? Maybe @asarasua has some thoughts here?

Author: Yes, that will be an issue indeed. In Netlify, functions (Lambda) can be used to serve a token. Ideally, that should be restricted with some user authentication. E.g. login with your credentials to get a token.

Reviewer: Is your thought that each _user_ of the demos will get a separate token, or will the whole demo app have a single token?

Author: The demo app will have a single token, but it should only be handed to users if they log in. With this, each partner can decide how to implement this.

Thinking ahead, perhaps the above could become quite cumbersome. Would maybe a generic SSO be feasible for the TROMPA project?

Reviewer 2: I believe that both WebIDs as used by Solid, and Neo4j, support authentication using OpenID Connect. Is that accurate? If so, would it make sense to incorporate this for this purpose? (i.e. users log in to a TROMPA app with their Web ID, using their vcard URI as described in #103, in order to obtain the required app token?)

Author: Ok, I will create a new issue for this topic.

### JWT Endpoint

For test environment use:

`https://api-test.trompamusic.eu/jwt`

For production environment use:

`https://api.trompamusic.eu/jwt`

> > **NOTE:** API keys are not exchangeable between the test and production environment. Each environment will have its own unique API keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** API keys are not shared between the test and production environments. Each environment will have its own unique API keys.
```

### Parameters

In order to obtain a JWT token you will need to have the following information:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| -- | -- | -- |
| id | String | This will identity your token (like a username) |
| apiKey | String | This is your secret API key (like a password) |
| scopes | String[] | A list of scopes for the required operations and types |

> The `id` and `apiKey` can be requested from one of the TROMPA project partners.

### Scopes

When requesting a JWT token, you can determine to which resources the token has access to. For example, if you only need to create a Person in the client side code, the following scope will only allow the client side code to create a person: `"scopes": ["Mutation:CreatePerson"]` 

> The scope pattern uses the `Operation` and `Fieldname` with a Colon ":" in between. Globs are also supported to make it easier to obtain access to multiple resources or while developing. If you need access to all `Create` operations, you could use the following scopes: `"scopes": ["Mutation:Create*"]`

Reviewer: out of interest can you do `"Mutation:*Person"` for all mutations related to people? This might be a bad idea if for example we have `MergeCompositionWithPerson`, does that also count (made up mutation)? Perhaps it's difficult to get correct.
Having said this, I'm pretty sure that almost all of our tokens will just be `"*"`, so perhaps this isn't worth spending time on.

Author: Yes, that would be possible and it will indeed also match mutations like `MergeCompositionWithPerson`. I've been thinking about this and we could add an extra colon to separate the type from the mutation. 

So it would look like this: `mutation:Person:Create`. This will make it easier to give full access to the Person type.

Reviewer: That sounds like a good idea

Author: Ok, I'm on it

For example:

```
POST /graphql HTTP/1.1
Host: api-test.trompamusic.eu
Authorization: Bearer xxxxxxxx.xxxxxxxx.xxxxxxxx
```

### Apollo

In Apollo (client) you can set the authorization header in each request with the following code:

```js
import { ApolloClient } from 'apollo-client';
import { createHttpLink } from 'apollo-link-http';
import { setContext } from 'apollo-link-context';
import { InMemoryCache } from 'apollo-cache-inmemory';

const httpLink = createHttpLink({
  uri: '/graphql',
});

const authLink = setContext((_, { headers }) => {
  // get the authentication token from local storage if it exists
  const token = localStorage.getItem('token');
  // return the headers to the context so httpLink can read them
  return {
    headers: {
      ...headers,
      authorization: token ? `Bearer ${token}` : "",
    }
  }
});

const client = new ApolloClient({
  link: authLink.concat(httpLink),
  cache: new InMemoryCache()
});
```

Read more in the [Apollo documentation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/networking/authentication/#header).

### GraphQL Playground

> In the GraphQL playground, you can manually add the `Authorization` header in the bottom left tab "HTTP HEADERS".

Reviewer: If I'm using the playground, how do I get the token? Especially if tokens expire daily, we need an easy way of re-generating one. Can we have a script installed into the docker image that lets us run a command to get a token?
Alternatively, for the CE we could have long-lived tokens (1 year?) and include the localhost token in the documentation.

Author: For now, I will add a long-live token in the documentation.

Author: Done!
